---
layout: post
title:  Update 8
date:   2020-01-12
tags: life, update, reading, web, technology
categories: blog
---

This is my first post since starting my new gig. I’ve learned a lot this week, and have much more to learn. Suffice it to say, I’m really excited to be working where am I, and I’m both exhausted and energized. I can’t remember the last time I’ve felt this excited about programming and technology.

I’ve also been fortunate to see some friends this week. On Friday, Jen and I serendipitously ran into some friends at Champion brewing, then saw some more at Lampo Pizza, and Saturday evening we had some other friends over for a delightful evening of dinner and conversation. One of our favorite things about living in Charlottesville is how easy it is to accidentally see people you know. Although it’s not a “small town” in any conventional sense, I regularly see friends and acquaintances out and about. Shopping, eating, drinking, and moving about the same places provides visible evidence that you’re part of a community. In California, I felt that I had community amongst a close group of friends, but it was probably in spite of the infrastructure of our lives, not because of it; in a typical day, you’ll work in one town, shop for groceries in another, and live in a third, driving at least twenty minutes to each.

- - - -

Of course, it doesn’t take much imagination to realize that spending a week learning a new domain, codebase, and programming language taxes one’s faculties. Unsurprisingly, I’m struggling to think of something to write about. I’m experiencing what [Alan Jacobs recently called “opinionlessness”](https://buttondown.email/ayjay/archive/opinionlessness/). He puts it well:

> At the moment I have fewer opinions that I have ever had in my life. 	When I see all the people online and in print giving advice and instructions and guidance, I think, _Do these people really know all the stuff they think they know?_ By contrast, I seem to be moving asymptotically to the point of not believing that I can give anyone advice about anything at all.   

Again, the cognitive load of a new job certainly contributes to this, and it behooves me to devote most of my resources to that right now. But at the same time, I have had the nagging sense that it’s hard to produce quality writing for the internet that isn’t half-baked, even if it’s at a lower frequency than cycles of what Gordon White calls [“insta-anxiety and twitter-derived-amygdala-damage”](https://runesoup.com/2020/01/fall-to-earth/). The full context of that quote is worth reproducing here:

> Here’s my Capricorn season take on the return to blogging: It is what passes for a ‘return to the real’ in our post digital future. Which is to say the realisation that there is _value_ in considered, researched, diligent content \-as opposed to neurochemical fear/rage flares on social media- is exactly what we should expect right now. This is a fall to earth from the polluted, ephemeral skies of insta-anxiety and twitter-derived-amygdala-damage.  

I might not always have the energy on a weekly basis to produce something that’s considered, researched, and diligent, and that’s fine. The blog is a web_log_, which in its primary form is a simple chronicle. And I’d rather chronicle simplicity than forcing any pseudo-profundity.

- - - -

### Reading

[*The Western Wind*](https://bookmarks.reviews/reviews/the-western-wind/) was fantastic, and highly recommended if you enjoyed either Umberto Eco’s _The Name of the Rose_ or Marilynne Robinson’s _Gilead_. The novel exists somewhere between the two. Currently reading Dan Simmons’ _Hyperion_.

### Watching

I watched _Cats_ last Sunday, which you should only see if you have a theater subscription or are streaming it on $ServiceOfChoice. I feel like CGI should be made illegal after that movie, but damn if some of those songs aren’t catchy.

### Listening

I made my first record store trip since moving, to [Sidetracks Music](https://sidetracksmusic.net/). I grabbed vinyls of Wilco’s _Ode to Joy_ and Nick Cave’s _Ghosteen_, and a CD of Torche’s _Admission_.

### Links

[Your Bonhoeffer Moment](http://eerdword.com/2020/01/10/your-bonhoeffer-moment/) - _Note: I try to avoid explicit discussion surrounding our current commander-in-chief for a few reasons, but I think this article poignantly addresses a current phenomenon among evangelicals and brings one of my favorite theologians to bear on it._

[Ian McKellan’s 1999 Lord of the Rings Blog](https://kottke.org/20/01/ian-mckellans-1999-lord-of-the-rings-blog) - I feel this needs no explanation.
